# Set the Layout of a Mediation Model Automatically

Set the layout of variables in a mediation model in the typical
left-to-right style automatically.

## Usage

``` r
auto_layout_mediation(
  object,
  x = NULL,
  y = NULL,
  exclude = NULL,
  v_pos = c("middle", "lower", "upper"),
  v_preference = c("upper", "lower"),
  output = c("matrix", "xy"),
  update_plot = TRUE
)
```

## Arguments

- object:

  It can be the output of
  [`lavaan::sem()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/lavaan/man/sem.html) or
  [`lavaan::lavaan()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/lavaan/man/lavaan.html), or a
  `lavaan`-class object. The model must have a `beta` matrix of the
  structural path. It can also be a `qgraph` object generated by
  [`semPlot::semPaths()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/semPlot/man/semPaths.html).
  A \`beta“ matrix will be reconstructed from the graph.

- x:

  The variables that will be treated as (pure) `x` variables: placed on
  the left of the plot, with no variables predicting them. If `NULL`,
  the default, the `x` variable(s) will be identified automatically.

- y:

  The variables that will be treated as (pure) `y` variables: placed on
  the right of the plot, with no variables predicted by them. If `NULL`,
  the default, the `y` variable(s) will be identified automatically.

- exclude:

  The variables to be omitted from the plot, typically the covariates
  ("control variables") in a model. If `NULL`, the default, all
  variables involved in the structural paths will be used in the plot.
  It is possible to exclude `y`-variables. However, excluding mediators
  is not allowed.

- v_pos:

  How the mediators are to be positioned vertically in the first pass.
  If `"middle"`, the function will try to position them close to the
  center of the plot. If `"lower"`, it will try to position them to the
  lower part of the plot. If `"upper"`, it will try to position them to
  the upper part of the plot.

- v_preference:

  The preference in shifting the mediators upward (`"upper"`) or
  downward (`"lower"`) in the second pass to avoid blocking or
  overlapping with any paths in the models. It is used only when`v_pos`
  is `"middle"`. If `v_pos` is `"lower"`, then `v_preference` will be
  forced to be
  `"lower". If `v_pos`is`"upper"`, then `v_preference`will be forced to be`"upper".

- output:

  The format of the output, used if `update_plot` is `FALSE`. If
  `"matrix"`, the output is a two-dimension character matrix with the
  names of the variables. If `"xy"`, the output is a two-column matrix
  of the relatived x- and y-positions of each variables.

- update_plot:

  Logical. Used if `object` is a `qgraph` object. If `TRUE`, the
  function returns a modified `qgraph` object with the new layout. If
  `FALSE`

## Value

If `object` is a `lavaan`-class object, or if `update_plot` is `FALSE`,
it returns a two-dimension layout matrix of the position of the nodes,
or a two-column matrix of the x-y positions of the nodes, depending on
the argument `output`.

If `object` is a `qgraph` object and `update_plot` is `TRUE`, it returns
a `qgraph` object with the the modified layout.

## Details

Typically, a path model with some `x` variables, some `y` variables, and
some mediators are drawn from left to right. This function tries to
generate the layout matrix automatically, meeting the following
requirements:

- The predictor(s), `x` variables(x), is/are placed to the left.

- The outcome variable(s), `y` variable(s), is/are placed to the right.

- The mediator(s) are positioned between `x` variable(s) and `y`
  variable(s) such that all paths point to the right. That is, no
  vertical path.

- The vertical position(s) of the mediator(s) will be adjusted such that
  no path passes through a mediator. That is, all paths are visible and
  not blocked by any mediator.

## See also

[`set_sem_layout()`](https://sfcheung.github.io/semptools/reference/set_sem_layout.md).
The output of `auto_layout_mediation()` can be used by
[`set_sem_layout()`](https://sfcheung.github.io/semptools/reference/set_sem_layout.md).

## Examples

``` r

library(lavaan)
library(semPlot)

# Create a dummy dataset
mod_pa <-
"
m11 ~ c1 + x1
m21 ~ c2 + m11
m2 ~ m11 + c3
m22 ~ m11 + c3
y ~ m2 + m21 + m22 + x1
"
fit <- lavaan::sem(
          mod_pa,
          do.fit = FALSE
        )
dat <- simulateData(
          parameterTable(fit),
          sample.nobs = 500,
          seed = 1234
        )
fit <- lavaan::sem(
          mod_pa,
          dat
        )

# Set the layout
m <- auto_layout_mediation(
        fit,
        exclude = c("c1", "c2", "c3")
      )
pm <- semPlotModel(fit) |> drop_nodes(c("c1", "c2", "c3"))
semPaths(
          pm,
          whatLabels = "est",
          layout = m
        )


# v_pos = "lower"
m <- auto_layout_mediation(
        fit,
        exclude = c("c1", "c2", "c3"),
        v_pos = "lower"
      )
pm <- semPlotModel(fit) |> drop_nodes(c("c1", "c2", "c3"))
p0 <- semPaths(
          pm,
          whatLabels = "est",
          layout = m
        )


# v_pos = "upper"
m <- auto_layout_mediation(
        fit,
        exclude = c("c1", "c2", "c3"),
        v_pos = "upper"
      )
pm <- semPlotModel(fit) |> drop_nodes(c("c1", "c2", "c3"))
p0 <- semPaths(
          pm,
          whatLabels = "est",
          layout = m
        )


# Can modify a qgraph

pm <- semPlotModel(fit) |> drop_nodes(c("c1", "c2", "c3"))
p <- semPaths(
          pm,
          whatLabels = "est"
        )

p2 <- auto_layout_mediation(p)
plot(p2)



```
