# Set the Sizes of Selected Nodes

Set the sizes of selected nodes.

## Usage

``` r
set_node_size(
  semPaths_plot,
  values = NULL,
  how = c("ratio", "value"),
  check_nodes = TRUE
)

set_node_width(
  semPaths_plot,
  values = NULL,
  how = c("ratio", "value"),
  check_nodes = TRUE
)

set_node_height(
  semPaths_plot,
  values = NULL,
  how = c("ratio", "value"),
  check_nodes = TRUE
)

set_node_shape(semPaths_plot, values = NULL, check_nodes = TRUE)
```

## Arguments

- semPaths_plot:

  A [qgraph::qgraph](https://rdrr.io/pkg/qgraph/man/qgraph.html) object
  generated by
  [semPlot::semPaths](https://rdrr.io/pkg/semPlot/man/semPaths.html), or
  a similar qgraph object modified by other
  [semptools](https://sfcheung.github.io/semptools/reference/semptools-package.md)
  functions.

- values:

  A named vector or a list of named list. See the Details section on how
  to set this argument.

- how:

  How the width will be changed. If `"ratio"`, then the new width is the
  original width multiplied by the supplied value. If `"value"`, then
  the new width is set to the supplied value.

- check_nodes:

  Logical. If `TRUE` and at least one node specified in `values` are not
  in `semPaths_plot`.

## Value

A [qgraph::qgraph](https://rdrr.io/pkg/qgraph/man/qgraph.html) based on
the original one, with the sizes of selected nodes changed.

## Details

Modify a [qgraph::qgraph](https://rdrr.io/pkg/qgraph/man/qgraph.html)
object generated by
[semPlot::semPaths](https://rdrr.io/pkg/semPlot/man/semPaths.html) and
change the sizes of selected nodes.

### Setting the Size-Related Attributes

These arguments can be set in three ways.

For a named vector, the name of an element should be the nodes for which
the attributes are to be changed. The names need to the *displayed*
*names* if plotted, which may be different from the names in the model.

For example, to change the size-related attribute of `x`, the name
should be `"x"`. Therefore, `c("y" = 2, "x" = 3)` changes the selected
attributes of the nodes `y` and `x` to 2 and 3, respectively.

For a list of named lists, each named list should have two named values:
`node` and `new_value`. The size-related attribute of `node` will
changed based on `new_value`.

The second approach is no longer recommended, though kept for backward
compatibility.

The last approach is setting the size-related attribute to a one-element
vector with *no* *name*. All nodes in plot will then have their sizes
changed based on this value.

### Shape, Width, and Height

How `width` and `height` are used depends on `shape`. The supported
values of `shape` depends on `qgraph`. Common values are are `"square"`,
`"rectangle"`, `"circle"`, "rectangle", and `"ellipse"`. For `"square"`
and `"circle"`, only the value of `width` is used to determine the size
of the node.

### Note on Changing a Value

There are also two modes for changing an attribute. If `how = "ratio"`,
then the new value, such as size, is equal to the original value
multiplied by the supplied value. For example, if the supplied value is
2, and the original size is 5, the new size is 10.

If `how = "value"`, then the new value is set to the user supplied
value. For example, if the supplied value is 15, then the new value is
15, regardless of the original value.

## Examples

``` r
mod_pa <-
  'x1 ~~ x2
   x3 ~  x1 + x2
   x4 ~  x1 + x3
  '
fit_pa <- lavaan::sem(mod_pa, pa_example)
m <- matrix(c("x1",   NA,   NA,
                NA, "x3", "x4",
              "x2",   NA,   NA), byrow = TRUE, 3, 3)
p_pa <- semPlot::semPaths(fit_pa, whatLabels="est",
            style = "ram",
            nCharNodes = 0, nCharEdges = 0,
            layout = m)


p_pa2v <- set_node_size(
 p_pa, c(x1 = 5, x2 = 10),
 how = "value"
)
plot(p_pa2v)


p_pa2v2 <- set_node_size(
 p_pa, c(x1 = 0.5, x2 = 2),
 how = "ratio"
)
plot(p_pa2v2)


p_pa2l <- set_node_shape(p_pa, "circle")
plot(p_pa2l)

```
