# Set the Attributes of Node Borders

Set the attributes of the borders of selected nodes.

## Usage

``` r
set_node_border_color(semPaths_plot, border_color = NULL, check_nodes = TRUE)

set_node_border_width(
  semPaths_plot,
  border_width = NULL,
  how = c("ratio", "value"),
  check_nodes = TRUE
)
```

## Arguments

- semPaths_plot:

  A [qgraph::qgraph](https://rdrr.io/pkg/qgraph/man/qgraph.html) object
  generated by
  [semPlot::semPaths](https://rdrr.io/pkg/semPlot/man/semPaths.html), or
  a similar qgraph object modified by other
  [semptools](https://sfcheung.github.io/semptools/reference/semptools-package.md)
  functions. It can also be a list of
  [qgraph::qgraph](https://rdrr.io/pkg/qgraph/man/qgraph.html) objects,
  probably though not necessarily from a multigroup model. If it is a
  list of [qgraph::qgraph](https://rdrr.io/pkg/qgraph/man/qgraph.html)
  objects, then the function will be applied to all the objects.

- border_color:

  A named vector or a list of named list. See the Details section on how
  to set this argument.

- check_nodes:

  Logical. If `TRUE` and at least one node specified in `values` are not
  in `semPaths_plot`.

- border_width:

  A named vector or a list of named list. See the Details section on how
  to set this argument.

- how:

  How the width will be changed. If `"ratio"`, then the new width is the
  original width multiplied by the supplied value. If `"value"`, then
  the new width is set to the supplied value.

## Value

A [qgraph::qgraph](https://rdrr.io/pkg/qgraph/man/qgraph.html) based on
the original one, with the corresponding attribute of of selected nodes
changed. If `semPaths_plot` is a list of
[qgraph::qgraph](https://rdrr.io/pkg/qgraph/man/qgraph.html) objects,
then a list of processed
[qgraph::qgraph](https://rdrr.io/pkg/qgraph/man/qgraph.html) objects
will be returned.

## Details

Modify a [qgraph::qgraph](https://rdrr.io/pkg/qgraph/man/qgraph.html)
object generated by
[semPlot::semPaths](https://rdrr.io/pkg/semPlot/man/semPaths.html) and
change the attributes of the borders of selected nodes.

### Setting the value of `border_color`

and `border_width`

This argument can be set in three ways.

For a named vector, the name of an element should be the nodes for which
the attributes are to be changed. The names need to the *displayed*
*names* if plotted, which may be different from the names in the model.

For example, to change the color of `x`, the name should be `"x"`.
Therefore, `c("y" = "red", "x" = "blue")` changes the colors of the
nodes `y` and `x` to `"red"` and `"blue"`, respectively.

For a list of named lists, each named list should have two named values:
`node`, plus `new_border_color` or `new_border_width`.

The second approach is no longer recommended, though kept for backward
compatibility.

The last approach is setting `border_color` or `border_width` to a
one-element vector with *no* *name*. All nodes in plot will then have
the corresponding attributes set to this value.

### Note on Border Width

There are also two modes for changing border width. If `how = "ratio"`,
then the new border width is equal to the original border width
multiplied by the supplied value. For example, if the supplied value is
2, and the original border width is 1.5, the new border width is 3.

If `how = "value"`, then the new border width is set to the user
supplied value. For example, if the supplied value is 2, then the new
border width is 2, regardless of the original border width.

## Examples

``` r
mod_pa <-
  'x1 ~~ x2
   x3 ~  x1 + x2
   x4 ~  x1 + x3
  '
fit_pa <- lavaan::sem(mod_pa, pa_example)
m <- matrix(c("x1",   NA,   NA,
                NA, "x3", "x4",
              "x2",   NA,   NA), byrow = TRUE, 3, 3)
p_pa <- semPlot::semPaths(fit_pa, whatLabels="est",
            style = "ram",
            nCharNodes = 0, nCharEdges = 0,
            layout = m)


my_border_color_vector <- c(x3 = "red", x4 = "blue")

p_pa2v <- set_node_border_color(p_pa, my_border_color_vector)
plot(p_pa2v)


p_pa2l <- set_node_border_color(p_pa, "green")
plot(p_pa2l)


my_border_width_vector <- c(x3 = 2, x4 = 3)

p_pa3v <- set_node_border_width(p_pa, my_border_width_vector)
plot(p_pa3v)


p_pa3l <- set_node_border_width(p_pa, 3)
plot(p_pa3l)

```
